The custom alerts you choose to configure will ultimately depend
on the types and volume of traffic you have and other variables.
So it helps to think about metrics based on a few major areas.
Overall usage; this refers to visits,
visitors, page views, time on-page, and bounce rate.
E-commerce metrics; conversions, transactions,
and revenue come to mind immediately.
Goals; If you have goals configured,
you would usually want to know about changes and your goal conversion rates.
We recommend at a minimum that you begin by
monitoring for these areas if they were applicable to your implementation,
and here are some ideas for how to get started.
For overall site usage,
begin with monitoring for a 10 percent weekly increase or decrease in total sessions.
You can then go in and troubleshoot for
example what channels are seeing a dip in performance.
This is often easier than setting up custom alerts for the performance of every channel.
If you're engaging in e-commerce,
consider alerts for a 10 percent weekly increase or
decrease in both conversion rate and revenue,
and if you set up goals,
it implies a level of importance that you get conversions for them.
Begin by monitoring for a 10 percent weekly increase
or decrease in goal conversion rate for each of your goals.
Or you can use goal value as a proxy for
actual goal completions if you have goal value
configured as Eric demonstrated in a previous lesson.
As you get to know your data,
you may need to go in and adjust some of these conditions.
We've provided them to you here as just a basic starting point.
Now that you have some guidance in hand to help you
determine what custom alerts you should consider creating,
we're going to head into the interface and set one up,
so you can see exactly how easy it is once you've done a little bit of earlier work.